feat(breadcrumbs): Add List system to Breadcrumbs with promotion to main (#1724)
Workday/canvas-kit: modules/react/breadcrumbs/stories/Breadcrumbs.stories.mdx

import {Meta} from '@storybook/addon-docs';
import {Breadcrumbs} from '@workday/canvas-kit-react/breadcrumbs';
import {Specifications} from '@workday/canvas-kit-docs';

import {Basic} from './examples/Basic';
import {Collapsed} from './examples/Collapsed';
import {RTLCollapsibleList} from './examples/RTL';
import {CurrentItemTruncation} from './examples/CurrentItemTruncation';
import {LinkTruncation} from './examples/LinkTruncation';

import {
  BreadcrumbsModelConfigComponent,
  BreadcrumbsStateComponent,
  BreadcrumbsEventsComponent,
} from './BreadcrumbsModel.splitprops.tsx';

<Meta title="Components/Navigation/Breadcrumbs/React" component={Breadcrumbs} />

# Canvas Kit Breadcrumbs

Breadcrumbs is a

> [compound component](/getting-started/for-developers/resources/compound-components/) that allow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[compound component](/getting-started/for-developers/resources/compound-components/) that allows
```

users to keep track and maintain awareness of their location as they navigate through pages,
folders, files, etc.

[> Workday Design Reference](https://design.workday.com/components/navigation/breadcrumbs)

## Installation

```sh

> yarn add @workday/canvas-kit-preview-react

Reviewer: ```suggestion
yarn add @workday/canvas-kit-react
```

```

## Usage

### Basic Example

`Breadcrumbs` includes a container `Breadcrumbs` component and the following subcomponents which can
be composed in a variety of ways: `Breadcrumbs.List`, `Breadcrumbs.Item`, `Breadcrumbs.CurrentItem`

> and `Breadcrumbs.Link`.

Author: Correct. `Breadcrumbs.OverflowButton` is not changeable by user, so we don't need to document it.

Accessibility is built into Breadcrumbs components in a way that allows you to create an inclusive
experience with little additional configuration. The only ARIA label you'll need to add is the
`aria-label` for `Breadcrumbs.List` as seen in the example. And all links require `href`s to be
properly identified. All other accessible attributes are baked into the components.

<ExampleCodeBlock code={Basic} />

### Collapsed List

> `Breadcrumbs` is a responsive component based on the width of its container. If the rendered tabs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Breadcrumbs` is a responsive component based on the width of its container. If the rendered breadcrumbs
```

item. The below example uses an `id` property on each item.

The dynamic API takes in any object, but since nothing is known about your object, a
[render prop](https://reactjs.org/docs/render-props.html) is necessary to instruct a list how it
should render.

<ExampleCodeBlock code={Collapsed} />

### Right-to-Left (RTL)

`Breadcrumbs` has bidirectional support out of the box. That means outside of setting the content
direction in your application's Canvas theme, you don't need to do anything else to make it work.
All you need to supply is the translated text for items and ARIA labels.

<ExampleCodeBlock code={RTLCollapsibleList} />

## Components

### Breadcrumbs

#### Usage

`Breadcrumbs` is a container component that is responsible for creating a `BreadcrumbsModel` and
sharing it with its subcomponents using React context. It does not represent a real element.

```tsx
<Breadcrumbs items={[]}>{/* Child components */}</Breadcrumbs>
```

Alternatively, you may pass in a model using the hoisted model pattern.

```tsx
const model = useBreadcrumbsModel({
  items: [],
});

<Breadcrumbs model={model}>{/* Child components */}</Breadcrumbs>;
```

#### Props

> Note that if you pass in a `model` configured with `useBreadcrumbsModel`, configuration props passed
> to `Breadcrumbs` will be ignored.
> 

Reviewer 2: Adding a missing prop table for `Breadcrumbs`, though perhaps you omitted it intentionally since it's quite long?

We're showing the full props table for [`Tabs`](https://workday.github.io/canvas-kit/?path=/docs/components-containers-tabs-react--basic#props) which also uses `Menu`. I say we show it here as well for consistency since it's not obscenely long.
```suggestion
Note that if you pass in a `model` configured with `useBreadcrumbsModel`, configuration props passed
to `Breadcrumbs` will be ignored.

<ArgsTable of={Breadcrumbs} />

```

### Breadcrumbs.List

#### Usage

> `Breadcrumbs.List` is a `Flex` component as `ul` element wrapped by `nav` element. It is a container
> for `Breadcrumbs.Item` subcomponents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Breadcrumbs.List` is a `Flex` component rendered as a `<ul>` element and wrapped within a `<nav>`
element. It is a container for `Breadcrumbs.Item` subcomponents.
```

```tsx
<Breadcrumbs.List>{/* Breadcrumbs.Items */}</Breadcrumbs.List>
```

#### Props

> `Breadcrumbs.List` has its own props such as `aria-label` for `nav` element and `buttonAriaLabel`
> for overflow button `aria-label`. All undocumented props are spread to the underlying `Flex`
> component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Breadcrumbs.List` accepts an `aria-label` prop for its `<nav>` element and a `buttonAriaLabel` prop
which is applied as an `aria-label` to the overflow button.

All undocumented props are spread to the underlying `Flex` component.
```

<ArgsTable of={Breadcrumbs.List} />

> 
> ---

Reviewer 2: We don't generally use horizontal rules in our MDXes.
```suggestion
```

### Breadcrumbs.Item

#### Usage

> `Breadcrumbs.Item` is a `Flex` component as `li` element. It is container for `Breadcrumbs.Link`
> component and provides correct overflow behavior across all items.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Breadcrumbs.Item` is a `Flex` component rendered as an `<li>` element. It is a container for the
`Breadcrumbs.Link` subcomponent which provides correct overflow behavior across all items.
```

```tsx
<Breadcrumbs.Item data-id="first">First Tab</Breadcrumbs.Item>
```

#### Props

Undocumented props are spread to the underlying `Flex` component.

> 
> ---

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

### Breadcrumbs.Link

#### Usage

> `Breadcrumbs.Link` is a styled `<a>` element that also renders a tooltip if the text is truncated.
> The built-in truncation + tooltip functionality provides an easy-to-use, accessible feature for
> managing the length of link text. The `maxWidth` is set to `350px` by default and can be adjusted as
> needed. Note that tooltips will only render when text is truncated. Here's an example with the
> `maxWidth` set to `150px`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Breadcrumbs.Link` is a styled `<a>` element that also renders a tooltip if the text is truncated.
The built-in truncation and tooltip functionality provides an easy-to-use, accessible feature for
managing the length of link text. The `maxWidth` is set to `350px` by default and can be adjusted as
needed. Note that tooltips will only render when text is truncated. The example below uses a
`maxWidth` of `150px`.
```

<ExampleCodeBlock code={LinkTruncation} />

##### Handling Redirects

> `Breadcrumbs.Link` defaults to redirecting with an `href`, meaning the page will hard-redirect when
> the link is clicked. However, if you're in a single-page application (SPA) environment, you might
> want to use the internal SPA router instead. You can override this hard-redirect with the `onAction`
> prop. Note that `onAction` will not block any `onClick` if provided. Below is an example using the
> `history` package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Breadcrumbs.Link` defaults to redirecting with an `href`, which means the page will hard-redirect
when the link is clicked. However, if you're in a single-page application (SPA) environment, you
might want to use the internal SPA router instead. You can override this hard-redirect with the
`onAction` prop. Note that `onAction` will not block any `onClick` if provided. The example below
uses the `history` package.
```

```tsx
import * as React from 'react';
// using the history package
import {createBrowserHistory} from 'history';
import {Breadcrumbs} from '@workday/canvas-kit-react/breadcrumbs';

// this is likely being done at the root of your application and not inside this component.
const history = createBrowserHistory();

const handleClick = (event: React.MouseEvent<HTMLAnchorElement, MouseEvent>) => {
  // handle any click side-effects here
  console.log('click event', event);
}

const handleRedirect = (href: string) => {
  // redirect using the internal SPA router
  history.push(href);
}

return (
  <Breadcrumbs.Link
    href="/account"
    onAction={handleRedirect}
    onClick={handleClick}
  >
    Account
  </Breadcrumbs.Link>;
)
```

#### Props

This component also supports
[all native `<a>` element props](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/a#Attributes).

<ArgsTable of={Breadcrumbs.Link} />

> 
> ---

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

### Breadcrumbs.CurrentItem

#### Usage

> `Breadcrumbs.CurrentItem` is a styled `<li>` element also renders a tooltip if the text is
> truncated. The built-in truncation + tooltip functionality provides an easy-to-use, accessible
> feature for managing the length of link text. The `maxWidth` is set to `350px` by default and can be
> adjusted as needed. Normally, this is a non-focusable element. But when truncated, it sets the
> `tabIndex` to `0` to enable the tooltip to appear on keyboard focus. Note that tooltips will only
> render when text is truncated. Here's an example with the `maxWidth` set to `100px`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Breadcrumbs.CurrentItem` is a styled `<li>` element that also renders a tooltip if the text is
truncated. The built-in truncation and tooltip functionality provides an easy-to-use, accessible
feature for managing the length of the text. The `maxWidth` is set to `350px` by default and can be
adjusted as needed. Normally, this is a non-focusable element; when truncated, however, it sets the
`tabIndex` to `0` to enable the tooltip to appear on keyboard focus. Note that tooltips will only
render when text is truncated. The example below uses a `maxWidth` of `100px`.
```

import {RTLOverflowList} from './examples/RTL';
import {CurrentItemTruncation} from './examples/CurrentItemTruncation';
import {LinkTruncation} from './examples/LinkTruncation';

import {
  BreadcrumbsModelConfigComponent,
  BreadcrumbsStateComponent,
  BreadcrumbsEventsComponent,
} from './BreadcrumbsModel.splitprops.tsx';

<Meta title="Components/Navigation/Breadcrumbs/React" component={Breadcrumbs} />

# Canvas Kit Breadcrumbs

Breadcrumbs is a
[compound component](/getting-started/for-developers/resources/compound-components/) that allows
users to keep track and maintain awareness of their location as they navigate through pages,
folders, files, etc.

[> Workday Design Reference](https://canvas.workday.com/components/navigation/breadcrumbs)

## Installation

```sh
yarn add @workday/canvas-kit-react
```

## Usage

### Basic Example

`Breadcrumbs` includes a container `Breadcrumbs` component and the following subcomponents which can
be composed in a variety of ways: `Breadcrumbs.List`, `Breadcrumbs.Item`, `Breadcrumbs.CurrentItem`
and `Breadcrumbs.Link`.

Accessibility is built into `Breadcrumbs` in a way that allows you to create an inclusive experience

> with little additional configuration. As seen in the example below, the only ARIA attribute you'll

Reviewer: I noticed in the story that there's no `aria-label` maybe it has a default?
<img width="1047" alt="Screen Shot 2022-09-06 at 11 11 36 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7966550/188698238-e9b201b3-0ae9-4195-b587-3e4c3a7320c7.png">

Author: yes, it has default value of `aria-label` as `breadcrumbs`. I'll need update this docs. thanks for catching

}
return (
  <Breadcrumbs.Link href="/account" onClick={handleClick}>
    Account
  </Breadcrumbs.Link>
);
```

#### Props

This component also supports
[all native `<a>` element props](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/a#Attributes).

<ArgsTable of={Breadcrumbs.Link} />

### Breadcrumbs.CurrentItem

#### Usage

`Breadcrumbs.CurrentItem` is a styled `<li>` element that also renders a tooltip if the text is
truncated. The built-in truncation and tooltip functionality provides an easy-to-use, accessible
feature for managing the length of the text. The `maxWidth` is set to `350px` by default and can be
adjusted as needed. Normally, this is a non-focusable element; when truncated, however, it sets the
`tabIndex` to `0` to enable the tooltip to appear on keyboard focus. Note that tooltips will only
render when text is truncated. The example below uses a `maxWidth` of `100px`.

<ExampleCodeBlock code={CurrentItemTruncation} />

#### Props

This component also supports
[all native `<li>` element props](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/li#Attributes).

<ArgsTable of={Breadcrumbs.CurrentItem} />

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

### Breadcrumbs.Menu

The `Breadcrumbs.Menu` uses the `Menu` component under the hood. Please view our [Menu docs](https://canvas.workdaydesign.com/components/popups/menu#component-api) for more in-depth component information.

```
